I590 Computational Methods for High-Throughput Data Assignment 1
IUPUI SPRING 2014
By: David Xu

DESCRIPTION
    This directory contains the Python code for the first assignment in I590
    Computational methods for high-throughput data. The code was written and
    tested on a Linux/UNIX-like machine running Python 2.7.*.

REQUIRED PACKAGES
    Because of the way Python syntax has changed since Python2.6 and older, or
    in Python 3.*.*, it is likely that SyntaxErrors will be returned if not
    using Python2.7.
    
    The script uses the following standard modules from Python and should not
    require additional installations:
        os

    Installation of 3 packages is required before running the script:
        NumPy
        SciPy
        matplotlib

    These can be installed in Ubuntu/Debian using the follow command:
        sudo apt-get install python-numpy python-scipy python-matplotlib

USAGE
    All parts of the assignment has been condensed into a single script, which
    can be run by executing the gencorrelation.py file:
        ./gencorrelation.py

    The script will first return the correlation matrix of matrix 1 to stdout as
    a tab-delimited matrix. The heatmap of this correlation matrix will be saved
    to the working directory as the image 'figure1.png' and displayed on screen.
    
    Upon closing the first heatmap, the second correlation matrix of matrix 2
    will be returned to stdout as a tab-delimited matrix. The heatmap of this
    correlation matrix will be saved to the working directory as the image
    'figure2.png' and displayed on screen.

    Upon closing the displayed heatmap, the final correlation matrix between
    matrices 1 and 2 will be returned to stdout as a tab-delimited matrix, with
    matrix1 represented as rows and matrix2 represented as columns. Like the
    first correlation matrix, the heatmap will be saved to the working directory
    as the image 'figure3.png' and displayed on screen.

RESULTS
    Results for all three heatmaps and the correlation matrices are provided in
    the results directory.
